New Entry Cloud Computing:SaaS (#946)
Codecademy/docs: content/cloud-computing/concepts/saas/saas.md

---
Title: 'SaaS'
Description: 'SaaS is a cloud computing service delivery model that makes software and applications available over the internet.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'

>   - 'Networking'

Reviewer: Is this within the spirit of networking? It is accessed via the internet, but I think the connection is loose.

Reviewer 2: I agree the association is loose, but I would vouch for this because isn't cloud computing a specialty within network engineering? This [CC blog post](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/blog/what-does-a-network-engineer-do/#:~:text=Cloud%20Networking%20Architect,with%20cloud%20services.) seems to reinforce this notion. Also, this may be beneficially for SEO-purposes/discoverability.

Tags:
  - 'Networking'
  - 'Cloud'
  - 'Infrastructure'
CatalogContent:
  - 'foundations-of-cloud-computing'
  - 'back-end-engineer-career-path'
---

Software as a service or **SaaS** is a cloud computing service delivery model that makes software and applications available over the internet.

Some examples of SaaS include Google Workspace, Dropbox, and Microsoft 365.

## Architecture

> SaaS services typically use a multi-tenant cloud architecture. This allows consumers to share computing resources within a cloud.

Reviewer: Found these two sentences confusing. Think this sentence could be simplified to be similar to:

SaaS services typically use a multi-tenant approach, where multiple consumers share access to cloud resources.

Reviewer 2: Should we add 1-3 more sentences here? Otherwise, this section will only contain one sentence.

Reviewer 2: Should we also consolidate the sentences in # 22 and # 24 to one line?

Reviewer: Yes

> SaaS services typically use a multi-tenant cloud architecture. This allows consumers to share computing resources within a cloud.
> 
> Each tenant has their own space to store data. The data is isolated and will remain invisible to other tenants.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SaaS services typically use a multi-tenant approach, where multiple consumers share access to cloud resources. Each tenant has their own space to store data. The data is isolated and will remain invisible to other tenants.
```

Reviewer 2: @nikstern @KTom101 In the context of this entry, is "tenant" synonymous with "user" and "consumer"? And if so, should we pick one and go with that?

Author: @nikstern @Dusch4593 Not sure what would be preferred. When writing this I was going back and forth with the terminology. I'm thinking now that maybe "customer" may be more suitable (from a service provider's perspective). Let me know your thoughts.

## Benefits

> - Accessible: Requires only an internet connection, can be accessed from any internet-enabled device and location.

Reviewer: I don't agree with this linkage, I think there is a difference between any internet-enabled device and IOT.

> - Accessible: Requires only an internet connection, can be accessed from any internet-enabled device and location.

Reviewer 2: In lieu of the link, should we at least mention 1 or 2 examples of such devices? I feel like "internet-enabled" could mean so many things here?

> - Accessible: Requires only an internet connection, can be accessed from any internet-enabled device and location.

Reviewer: Sounds good to me

> - Accessible: Requires only an internet connection, can be accessed from any internet-enabled device and location.

Reviewer 2: cc: @KTom101

- Management: Users do not have to maintain anything; all maintenance and updates are provided by the service provider.

> - Scalability: Users can access as many services as they want.

Reviewer: Would change Scalability to something like "Users can use as much of the service as they want, and are charged for the amount used.

## Challenges

> 

Reviewer: Would suggest summarizing here that issues tend to stem from not being in direct control of the service.

---
Title: 'SaaS'
Description: 'SaaS is a cloud computing service delivery model that makes software and applications available over the internet.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Networking'
Tags:
  - 'Networking'
  - 'Cloud'
  - 'Infrastructure'
CatalogContent:
  - 'foundations-of-cloud-computing'
  - 'back-end-engineer-career-path'
---

**Software as a service (SaaS)** is a cloud computing service delivery model that makes software and applications available over the Internet.

Some examples of SaaS include Google Workspace, Dropbox, and Microsoft 365.

## Architecture

SaaS services typically use a multi-tenant approach, where multiple customers share access to cloud resources. Each customer has their own space to store data. The data is isolated and will remain invisible to other tenants.

## Advantages

With its flexibility and low costs, SaaS services have several advantages including:

> - Accessibility: Requires only an internet connection, can be accessed from an internet-enabled device (e.g., a computer, smartphone or tablet) within a location that has internet service.
> - Management: Customers do not have to maintain anything; all maintenance and updates are provided by the service provider.
> - Scalability: Customers can use as much of the service as they want, and are charged for the amount used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Accessibility**: Requires only an internet connection, can be accessed from an internet-enabled device (e.g., a computer, smartphone or tablet) within a location that has internet service.
- **Management**: Customers do not have to maintain anything; all maintenance and updates are provided by the service provider.
- **Scalability**: Customers can use as much of the service as they want, and are charged for the amount used.
```

## Challenges

Since they are not in direct control of the service, customers could face challenges such as:

> - Service Issues: Disruptions like security breaches, server outages, or service changes are beyond the customer's control.
> - Switching Providers: Depending on the amount of data being stored, it may be difficult to transfer the data to a different provider.
> - Updates: If the service provider issues a new version of the product, the customer may have to allocate time learning the newer version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Service Issues**: Disruptions like security breaches, server outages, or service changes are beyond the customer's control.
- **Switching Providers**: Depending on the amount of data being stored, it may be difficult to transfer the data to a different provider.
- **Updates**: If the service provider issues a new version of the product, the customer may have to allocate time learning the newer version.
```
